project title : ADVANCED FOOTSTEP POWER GENERATION

 DAY 1 :
 
PROBLEM STATEMENT :
Energy is one of the most important issues around the world. Man has needed and used energy at an increasing rate for the sustenance and well being since time immemorial. Due to this a lot of energy resources have been exhausted and wasted. Some developing countries and newly industrialized countries have several hours of daily power cuts in almost all cities and villages the increase in demand for electricity exceeds the increase in electric power generation.


OBJECTIVE :
The main aim of this project is to develop much cleaner cost effective way of power generation method, which in turn
helps to bring down the global warming as well as reduce the power shortages.


ABSTRACT :
The objective of this project is to generate electric power through the fabrication of footstep arrangement. Nowadays power demand is increased so this project is used to generate the electric power in order to compensate the electric power demand. The whole human/bio-energy being wasted if can be made possible for utilization it will great indentation and crowd energy frames will be very usefull energy in crowded countries. Proposal for the utilization of waste energy of foot power with human locomotion is very much relevant and important for highly populated countries like India where the railway station, temples etc., are overcrowded all round the clock. Researchers are trying to introduce substitute energy sources from nature. That must be green and not harmful for the environment.


DAY 2 :
 
INTRODUCTION :

Energy harvesting is defined as capturing minute amounts of energy from one or more of the surrounding energy sources.
Human beings have already started to use energy harvesting technology in the form of windmill, geothermal and solar energy. The energy came from natural sources, termed as renewable energy.
Walking is the most common activity in human life. When a person walks, he loses energy to the road surface in the form of impact, vibration, sound etc, due to the transfer of his weight on to the road surface, through foot falls on the ground during every step. This energy can be tapped and converted in the usable form such as in electrical form. This device,if embedded in the footpath, can convert foot impact energy into electrical form. Human powered transport has been in existence since time immemorial in the form of walking,running and swimming. However modern technology has led to machines to enhance the use of human-power in more efficient manner.
 The technology is based on a principle called the piezoelectric effect, in which certain materials have the ability to build up an electrical charge from having pressure and strain applied to them. Piezoelectricity refers to the ability of some materials to generate an electric potential in response to applied pressure.
 
 
 LITERATURE SURVEY :
 
 The most common methodology of power generators include
➢ Foot step electric converter device (Mechanical method)
➢ Footstep electricity generation using pavegen
➢ Footwear embedded harvesters

Foot step electric device :
This device, if embedded in the footpath, can convert foot impact energy into electrical form. The downward movement of the plate results in rotation of the shaft of an electrical alternator fitted in the device, to produce electrical energy electricity generated from these devices can be used for street lights. This is a mechanical arrangement so
efficiency is not so good and wear tear problem is there, the weight is less then 50kg then this
device will not work.

Footstep electricity generation using pavegen :
The recycled rubber "PaveGen" paving slabs harvest kinetic energy from the impact of people stepping on them and instantly deliver tiny bursts of electricity to nearby appliances. The slabs can also store energy for up to three days in an on-board battery, according to its creator. Paving slabs that convert energy from people's footsteps into electricity are set to help power Europe's largest urban mall, at the 2012 London Olympics site. It’s limited due to cost of installation and complex structure.

Footwear embedded harvesters :
This works as follows: droplets of liquid are placed between electrodes coated in dielectric film. Both droplets and electrodes are connected to an external electrical circuit. External movement causes the interface between the droplets and the electrodes to decrease which releases an electrical charge which flows back into the electrical circuit, generating an
electrical current. Limited due to maintenance cost is high and life time of droplets.
